@c Copyright (C) 2004 Jim Lowe
@c This is part of the swbis manual.
@c For copying conditions, see the file copying.texi.


@node Command Reference
@appendix Command Reference

@menu

Commands

* swpackage: (swbis_swpackage). 
* swpackage.8 in one text file::

* swinstall: (swbis_swinstall).
* swinstall.8 in one text file::

* swremove: (swbis_swremove).
* swremove.8 in one text file::

* swcopy: (swbis_swcopy).
* swcopy.8 in one text file::

* swlist: (swbis_swlist).
* swlist.8 in one text file::

* swverify: (swbis_swverify). 
* swverify.8 in one text file::

* swconfig: (swbis_swconfig). 
* swconfig.8 in one text file::

* swign: (swbis_swign). 
* swign.1 in one text file::

* lxpsf: (swbis_lxpsf). 
* lxpsf.1 in one text file::

Formats

* sw: (swbis_sw).
* sw.5 in one text file::
* swpackage.5 in one text file::

Conventions, User Manual

* swbis(1): (swbis_user).
* swbis(7): (swbis_swbis).

@end menu

@node swpackage.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swpackage.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swpackage_8.text

@node swinstall.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swinstall.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swinstall_8.text

@node swremove.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swremove.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swremove_8.text

@node swcopy.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swcopy.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swcopy_8.text

@node swlist.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swlist.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swlist_8.text

@node swverify.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swverify.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swverify_8.text

@node swconfig.8 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swconfig.8 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swconfig_8.text

@node swign.1 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swign.1 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swign_1.text

@node lxpsf.1 in one text file
@unnumberedsec lxpsf.1 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/lxpsf_1.text

@node swpackage.5 in one text file
@unnumberedsec swpackage.5 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/swpackage_5.text

@node sw.5 in one text file
@unnumberedsec sw.5 in one text file
@verbatiminclude ../text/sw_5.text


