@c Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 Jim Lowe
@c This is part of the swbis manual.
@c For copying conditions, see the file gcc.texi.

@node Glossary
@unnumbered Glossary

(This section is currently under construction).

@table @asis

@item Distribution
This refers to the package in either a directory form (unpacked) or
a serial archive form (e.g. a compressed tarball).  A distribution
is always in the form of the POSIX software packaging layout.

@item Exported Catalog Structure
This refers to the first portion of the distribution, the portion
of the distribution that is contained in the @file{catalog} directory.

@item File Storage Structure
This refers to the second portion of the distribution, the portion
that is not the catalog portion but follows it.  The control directory
names for products and filesets are repeated from the Exported Catalog Structure
and serve to segregate and annotate the files that make up the fileset.

@item Installed Software
This refers abstractly to installed software files and installed software catalog.

@item Installed Software Catalog
This refers to the catalog of installed software.  The form
of this catalog is not specified by the standard.

@item software_spec
A software_spec follows a specific syntax of dot separated tags
optionally followed by a comma (,) and then a comma separated list of
version identifiers.

@item Software Selection
A software selection has the form of a software_spec.
A Software Selection appears before the '@@' and the targets
on the command lines.

@item Target
A target specifies a host and file name on the host.  The GNU implementation
also supports a syntax to specify a user name on the host.  A list of one or more
targets is given after a single '@@' and are the the last arguments on the command line.

@end table
