''' lxpsf.1
''' 
'''
'''
.TH LXPSF 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lxpsf \- Translate packages to a tar archive with a PSF.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlxpsf\fP [options] [package_file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Lxpsf
reads the input package and writes a tar or cpio archive to stdout, depending on
the native (or encapsulated) format of the input package.  The output layout
has a single leading directory named according to the name, version, and release 
attributes.
.PP
The first regular file is ``PSF'', and is a IEEE 1387.2-1995 (ISO/IEC 15068-2:1999) Product Specification File
containing the package metadata.
Subsequent files are control data represented as files, and, the files of the distribution.
The output is designed so the
.B swpackage
utility is able to form a Posix package from the installed output.
.PP
Currently,  RPM format v3 (both source and binary), Debian Package format, Slackware runtime packages and
plain vanilla tarballs (with a leading directory path) are supported for translation.
.PP
.SS Options
.TP
\fB-p \fI,--psf-only\fR
Write only the psf file to stdout.
.TP
\fB-A \fI,--psf-form1\fR
A PSF form for RPM translation (deprecated). 
.TP
\fB-A \fI,--psf-form2\fR
A second PSF form for RPM translation (deprecated). 
.TP
\fB-A \fI,--psf-form3\fR
A third PSF form for RPM translation (current).
.TP
.TP
\fB-H \fIformat\fR
Force the specified format.
The choices are currently (only)
\fIustar\fP.
.TP
\fB-x \fI,--use-recursive-fileset\fR
Use "file *" instead of individual file definitions in the PSF.
.TP
\fB-r \fI,--no-leading-path\fR
use "." as the leading archive path.
.TP
\fB-o \fI,--info-only\fR
Write the INFO file for the rpm archive to stdout.
.TP
\fB-D \fI,debug-level\fR=TYPE
Always set to "link"
.SH HOWTO Use with swpackage
Either install into file system or use the 
.B -W source=-
option of GNU
.B swpackage.
.PP
.nf
  cat your_rpm.rpm |
  lxpsf --format=ustar --psf-form3 |
  (mkdir /tmp/swbis; cd /tmp/swbis && tar xpf -; exit $?) &&
  (cd /tmp/swbis && swpackage -s PSF @- ) | tar tvf -
.ni
.PP
.nf
  cat your_rpm.rpm |
  lxpsf --format=ustar --psf-form3 |
  swpackage -W source=- -s@PSF @- | tar tvf -
.ni
.SH FILES
./PSF
.SH "RELATED STANDARDS"
.PP
POSIX\&.1, IEEE 1387.2, XDSA C701
.SH "IDENTIFICATION"
.PP
 The RPM translation program of the swbis project.
 DATE: 2010-02-22
 Revision: 1.5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
swbisparse(1), swpackage(8)
.SH BUGS
Probably many. A de-facto conversion policy is intimated in the PSF by this program.

